Frozen:Nestled in the glacial expanse of the Icey Depths lies the enchanting Frozen Cove. It is a misfortune for a monster to end up trapped on the island, as it is impossible to escape from it's grasp. For when a monster leaves it's home and voyages into the abyss in search of loot, they normally end up incased in ice! From there, the monster is carried along a stream and eventually dropped into the very centre of the island, and stuck there for eternity. 
Chygll:It is rumoured that the illusive Chygll was crafted from the many mechanical hands of the great TinkerTonker himself. This marvellous machine originates from the workshop of the TinkerTonker, but after the incident of the Gearsnap Ziggazap, was left abandoned in a dark, icey cave beneath the surface. Over time, this monster adapted to it's environment, picking up gold and gems as it ventured deeper and deeper into the network. Eventually, this monster tripped a wire, and was sent tumbling down a chute straight into the Frozen Cove. How unfortunate!
Djyeti:The fabled Djyeti is a cryptid of staggering mystery. Wise monsters speak tales of its great strength, whilst others fear it. However - the longing for treasures and riches is far too powerful even for a Monster of such will as the Djyeti. Due to its chilly fate within the Frozen Cove, there has been no definitive proof of the monsters existence. When not debated among skeptics, the Djyeti  plays songs on its reliable and sturdy drum! Although the Djyeti might seem very bulky and strong, it has a big and warm heart! It may look irritated or angry, but that's just a well-crafted facade.
Escarmor:Escarmor was taken in at a young age by the great TinkerTonker. This unfortunate soul had become lost from it's gallant group of gastropods, and ended up right at the workshop's doorstep. Out of the kindness of the TinkerTonker's mechanical oil-filled heart, it repaired Escarmor back to full health, armouring it with countless upgrades and weaponry on it. After the incident, this monster was abandoned in a frozen tundra to fend for itself. After many days of wondering around, Escarmor found solace in a cave beneath a mountain. However, in the monster's sleep, it was carried down a slope by melting ice, and ended up inside a gigantic cove!
Niblite:With it's glowing body, this monster is really helpful when the island starts to turn dark, as it's body's light source is said to be able to light up almost the whole island. Sadly though, even though it's as bright as it can be, it provides no warmth for its colleagues. And if the light was to go out, Niblite would basically just... die. The surges going through it's body that keep it's heart beating are produced by the lightbulb on top of it's head, so if that runs out, it's gone for good.
Wallagumper:If you have a keen ear, you might hear the calls and wails of the Wallagumper. I was lucky enough to be one of those people! From the looks of it, it seems to come from an old village, or something like that. Oddly enough,  it got irritated at the sight of a goose. I wonder what it could mean? Either way, the Wallagumper is weird, but I can't help but chuckle at it sometimes.
Jelteejug:SPLASH! SPLASH! Here comes the glorious Jelteejug! Similar to all "drinkable" friends in this vast monsterous plane, you do not wanna taste the toxic juice that inhabits the body of the Jelteejug. This large jelly figure stands a crucial role in why all the monsters decided to take a journey down to the cove. They were the one to notify the others of the prized items that sit in the depths below. Why would they listen to them? The reason is that the Jellteejug is one of the nicest monsters to ever step foot in the cove! Jelteejugs can breathe in the water that surrounds the cove, so they timely catch some fish for the rest of the monsters to eat. What a helpful jar of joy!
Knockrock:The Knockrock is quite the mysterious monster, yet it is rumoured to have been created by an ancient monster civilisation as an idol. After the civilisation died out, the Knockrock was left abandoned in a cave. Eventually, it was rediscovered by archaelogists and turned into a decoration for their island. However, when this island began to drift away into the Eternal Void, it was rescued by the god of the Monster World, and it's inhabitants were taken into it's pocket dimension!
GnailDwhum:GnailDwhums are a unique species of monsters, who tend to live underground in groups. Although it may not seem it, these gastropods are extraordinary architects! Despite appearing blind, these snails use their telekentic abilities to see, as well as manipulate the rocks and rubble around it to it's will!
Xylowah:
Hmhph:Whilst humming the lovely song of the paradise, Hmhphs love to energize themselves by staring into the light of the portals. Each Hmhph is equipped with the most powerful lenses the EB world has ever witnessed! After a long day of humming away, the Hmhph loves to wind down by shutting its eye module to obsorb the surrounding light. The orgins of the Hmhph are certainly questionable to say the least. This specific branch of the Huum family originated from the vast plains that surround the steel sanctuary. From the families roots, things were not easy so they sought refuge to the large Travelling Workshop, otherwise known as the TinkerTonker. This mighty being would equip each Hmhph with the power to obsorb and release electricity! With this mighty power came its strong buzzy sound that would help to fill the air of the Galactic Paradise.
Hendbubet:
Nightae:Is it a bird? Is it a plane? We aren't actually sure what the Nightae is, but the leading theory is that in an old world, the nonchalant Nightae was a prominent archaelogist, using it's many floating hands to excavate historical sites of the Monster Realm. Sometimes, the Nightae may sneak off with an artifact that it has discovered, so as to hold a large collection of uncovered treasures.
Pengwip:Pengwips hail from the Arctic regions of the Monster Realm, and use their popping out eyeballs to help spot prey. These monsters are amazing swimmers, and can withstand freezing cold temperatures with ease. Unfortunately, this leads to some ending up incased in ice, after not realising how cold it is!
Triceptic:
